# EasyPIR (WIP)
Cryptography helps keep our communication, storage, and networks secure. Protocols are supported by security and correctness proofs. Security proofs in a computational model establish security of a protocol facing a polytime computationally bounded advesary. These protocols are described algorithmitically and the proofs for security are reasoned about through descriptions. As these protocols grow in complexity, these paper-style algorithmic reasoning proofs grow error prone, leading to a shift in implementation-based protocols. Tools such as [EasyCrypt](https://github.com/EasyCrypt/easycrypt) provide a framework for formally verifying cryptographic protocols. 

The goal of this project is to formally verify Private Information Retrieval (PIR) protocols in EasyCrypt. In PIR, a client wants to access an index of a public database without the server gaining knowledge of the querried index. The trivial solution would be for the user to request the entire database from the server and reindex it themselves, since by asking for every index the server does not gain information on what the client wanted. This is linear in the size of the database in both communication cost and runtime. By employing a two-server setup with the user aquiring hints from one of them in an offline phase, [Private Information Retrieval with Sublinear Online Time](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1075) establishes a sublinear retrieval time. The goal of this project is to implement the algorithmic reasoning and prove the security garentees given by this construction.

